#README.md: GettingCleaningData-CourseProject
=============================================

Course Project Repository for the Getting and Cleaning Data Course of the JHU Data Science Specialization

The purpose of this repository is to take a set of data spread across several input data files, transform that data via an R script into a ‘tidy’ data set and save that tidy data set to a file.  The input data is in a set of test and training files along with several other accompanying files that describe the data.  

The transformation from raw data to tidy data involves the following:
*Merging the training and the test sets to create one data set.
*Extracting only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
*Using descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
*Appropriately labeling the data set with descriptive variable names. 
*Creating a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject. 

Finally, the tidy data is saved to a file in .csv format.

See the Course Project Description below for more details.  

##Repository File List:
*README.md - This file
*run_analysis.R - the R script that reads in the input data (see codebook.md for the input list), transforms it into a tidy data set, and saves that tidy data set to a .csv file.
*./data/tidyData2.csv - .csv file that contains the tidy data set generated by run_analysis.R.
*codebook.md - the markdown file that contains a description of the input files and data plus the data in the final tidy data set.


##Course Project Description:
The purpose of this project is to demonstrate your ability to collect, work with, and clean a data set. The goal is to prepare tidy data that can be used for later analysis. You will be graded by your peers on a series of yes/no questions related to the project. You will be required to submit: 1) a tidy data set as described below, 2) a link to a Github repository with your script for performing the analysis, and 3) a code book that describes the variables, the data, and any transformations or work that you performed to clean up the data called CodeBook.md. You should also include a README.md in the repo with your scripts. This repo explains how all of the scripts work and how they are connected.  

One of the most exciting areas in all of data science right now is wearable computing - see for example this article . Companies like Fitbit, Nike, and Jawbone Up are racing to develop the most advanced algorithms to attract new users. The data linked to from the course website represent data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained: 

http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones 

Here are the data for the project: 

https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip 

You should create one R script called run_analysis.R that does the following. 
*Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
*Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
*Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
*Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. 
*Creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject. 
Good luck!
